docs/README_EN.md, before:

**Warning: Lacks thorough testing!!!**

**You’re still helpful, even if it's just for translations.**

**Translation: Native English speakers (or fluent speakers) needed to rewrite i18n and README_EN.md.**

# L2K (Load 2 KeyboardLED) v3.2.1

Ultra-lightweight Linux system monitor. Gone are the complex GUIs—we use LEDs for display.

No LEDs? You’ve got three on your keyboard. No keyboard backlights? Try your NIC or disk indicators—any kernel-managed LED will do.

If you lack even those, you're on your own.
## Features
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Track CPU, RAM, and Disk utilization (multi-disk support included).
- **闪烁**: 根据系统负载闪烁 LED。
- **可定制**: 通过 `/etc/l2k.conf` 自定义 LED映射关系、阈值与闪烁频率。
- **静默模式**：默认在后台静默运行。
- **多语言支持**: 支持中英文。
## 使用
### 运行
需要 **root** 权限，因为要写入 `/sys/class/leds/` 下的灯。

默认为后台模式运行。

支持命令行参数：
- `-f` 以前台模式启动。
- `-h` 显示帮助。
- `-v` 版本号？

使用 `sudo pkill l2k` 来关闭。（应该有安全关闭的）。

### 配置

存在 `/etc/l2k.conf`。

忽略所有 `#` 开头的行：

第 1 行， 2 个整数。分别代表灯常亮该指标的阀值（0-100）与负载为 1% 时的闪烁周期（以 tick 为单位，1 个 10ms ）。

接下来一直到文件末尾，每行 2 到 3 个以空格分割的字符串，分别代表：
- 灯名字（会自动搜索，你可以写 “numlock” 等）。
- 指标名，可选项：“CPU”/“RAM“/”DISK“。
- 磁盘名，如 “sda”、“sdb”等。（仅在指标名为 DISK 时生效）

### 编译
Linux 下，需要 C++17。
```bash
g++ --std=c++17 l2k.cpp -o l2k
```
如果找不到 `i18n.h`，就默认使用英文。

Commit message:

Update README_EN.md for translation and usage details

docs/README_EN.md, after:

**Warning: Lacks thorough testing!!!**

**You’re still helpful, even if it's just for translations.**

**Pending: Native English speakers (or fluent speakers) needed to rewrite i18n and README_EN.md.**

**Pending: Translation: Translated by Gemini-3-Flash; verification required.**

# L2K (Load 2 KeyboardLED) v3.2.1

Ultra-lightweight Linux system monitor. Gone are the complex GUIs—we use LEDs for display.

No LEDs? You’ve got three on your keyboard. No keyboard backlights? Try your NIC or disk indicators—any kernel-managed LED will do.

If you lack even those, you're on your own.
## Features
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Track CPU, RAM, and Disk utilization (multi-disk support included).
- **Flashing**: LED indicators flash based on system load.
- **Customizable**: Customize LED mapping, thresholds, and flash frequency via `/etc/l2k.conf` .
- **Silent Mode**: Runs quietly in the background by default.
- **Multilingual Support**: Supports both Chinese and English.
## Usage
### Running
**Root privileges** are required to write to the LED devices under `/sys/class/leds/` .

By default, the tool runs in **background mode**.

Supported Command Line Arguments:
- `-f` Start in foreground mode.
- `-h` Show help message.
- `-v` Display version information.

To stop the program, use `sudo pkill l2k` . (We have a graceful shutdown, but how "graceful" it actually is, nobody knows.).

### Configuration

The configuration is stored at `/etc/l2k.conf`.

Lines starting with `#` are ignored as comments.

**Line 1**: Contains two integers.
- **Threshold** (0-100): The system load percentage at which the LED stays solid (always on).
- **Flash Interval** (at 1% load): The base flash period in ticks (1 tick = 10ms).

**Remaining lines**: Each line contains 2 to 3 space-separated strings, representing:
- **LED Name**: The system will search for this automatically (e.g., you can use "numlock").
- **Metric**: Select from `CPU`, `RAM`, or `DISK`.
- **Disk Name**: (Optional) e.g., "sda", "sdb". This field is only effective when the Metric is set to `DISK`.

### Compilation
Requires C++17 on Linux.
```bash
g++ --std=c++17 l2k.cpp -o l2k
```
If `i18n.h` is missing, the tool will default to **English**.
